What is BioLCCC?
-----------------

BioLCCC (Liquid Chromatography of Biomolecules at Critical Conditions) is a
model which describes the adsorption of protein molecules on porous media. Its
main application is retention time prediction in liquid chromatography, however
the list of potential applications can be easily extended. Contrary to the other
models of peptide/protein chromatography, BioLCCC starts from very basic
assumptions regarding flexibility of a polypeptide chain, the shape of a pore,
type of interactions neglected, etc. Given this assumptions, the coefficient of
distribution (Kd) of a peptide between solid phase and mobile phase can be
derived using the methods of statistical physics of macromolecules. Finally, the
retention time of a peptide is calculated from Kd using the basis equation of
gradient chromatography.

Owing to the physical basis of the BioLCCC model, it contains very few free
parameters. The retention properties of an amino acid are characterized by a
single number, which is essentially the energy of interaction between the amino
acid and the surface of solid phase in pure water+ion paring agent. Given this
small number of phenomenological parameters, the BioLCCC model can easily be
adapted for an arbitrary type of chromatography not limited by phase or solvent
types. Moreover, its extension to peptides with post-translational modifications
is straightforward as it was shown for the phosphorylated amino acids.

Several papers regarding BioLCCC model were published:

1. Liquid Chromatography at Critical Conditions:â€‰ Comprehensive Approach to
Sequence-Dependent Retention Time Prediction, Alexander V. Gorshkov, Irina A.
Tarasova, Victor V. Evreinov, Mikhail M. Savitski, Michael L. Nielsen, Roman A.
Zubarev, and Mikhail V. Gorshkov, Analytical Chemistry, 2006, 78 (22),
7770-7777. `Link <http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ac060913x>`_.

2. Applicability of the critical chromatography concept to proteomics problems:
Dependence of retention time on the sequence of amino acids, Alexander V.
Gorshkov A., Victor V. Evreinov V., Irina A. Tarasova, Mikhail V. Gorshkov,
Polymer Science B, 2007, 49 (3-4), 93-107. 
`Link <http://dx.doi.org/10.1134/S1560090407030098>`_.

3. Applicability of the critical chromatography concept to proteomics problems:
Experimental study of the dependence of peptide retention time on the sequence
of amino acids in the chain, Irina A. Tarasova, Alexander V. Gorshkov, Victor V.
Evreinov, Chris Adams, Roman A. Zubarev, and Mikhail V. Gorshkov, Polymer
Science A, 2008, 50 (3), 309. 
`Link <http://www.springerlink.com/content/gnh84v62w960747n/>`_.

4. Retention time prediction using the model of liquid chromatography of
biomacromolecules at critical conditions in LC-MS phosphopeptide analysis,
Tatiana Yu. Perlova, Anton A. Goloborodko, Yelena Margolin, Marina L.
Pridatchenko, Irina A. Tarasova, Alexander V. Gorshkov, Eugene Moskovets,
Alexander R. Ivanov and Mikhail V. Gorshkov, Accepted to Proteomics.
`Link <http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/pmic.200900837>`_.

What is libBioLCCC?
---------------------

libBioLCCC is a free implementation

What is pyBioLCCC?
-------------------
